Hello, nice to meet you. My name is Holly and I will be your accessibility
instructor for this course. Accessibility should be incorporated into every role
at a company, whether a product designer, communicator, developer or yes,
project manager. In my role of accessibility education program manager at
Google, I help ensure all Googlers are educated on accessibility, from building
accessible products for the entire world, to communicating accessibility with
you throughout this course. I'm deaf myself, so I am able to share my
experiences as a person with a disability too and help others understand that
having a disability isn't a barrier in itself. It's the world around us that we
must strive to make it accessible for everyone. Accessibility can be defined in
a number of different ways. To me, it means actively removing any barriers that
might prevent persons with disabilities from being able to access technology,
information, or experiences, and leveling in the playing field so everyone has
an equal chance of enjoying life and being successful. A disability is often
defined as a physical or mental condition that substantially limits a major life
activity, such as walking, talking, seeing, hearing, or learning. Over one
billion people in the world have a disability, 1 billion. That's more than the
population of the United States, Canada, France, Italy, Japan, Mexico, and
Brazil combined. Disability is diverse and intersectional. Someone can be born
with a condition or acquire it later in life. Disability can affect us all in
some way, whether directly or indirectly, and at any time, from permanent, like
deafness, to temporary, like a broken leg, to situational, like trying to
operate a TV remote control in the dark. When you create solutions for persons
with disabilities, you are not only serving the critical audience of people with
permanent disabilities, you are also unlocking secondary benefits for everyone
who may move in and out of disability over time. As you progress through this
course, it's also important to keep in mind your fellow classmates. Setting the
expectation that you'll be interacting with others and learn and work
differently is a key strength of working with accessibility in mind. Asking
others what they need from you to learn and communicate and also sharing what
you need if you have a disability yourself is important to working well together
as a team. In project management, you, yourself, people on your project team, or
people highly invested in your project may have a disability, whether visible or
invisible. As a project manager, you are responsible for making sure a group of
people can come together to achieve a common goal using shared tools and
systems. In order to be successful, you need to make sure the infrastructure and
culture you set up works for everyone. Knowing this is a key element of project
management. I'll teach you how to make your work and content accessible. I'll
also help you become a better project manager by considering accessibility in
your future projects. I'll offer tips and best practices throughout the program,
starting with this one. Did you know that many technologies that we all enjoy
started out as an accessibility feature? Think about the Google Assistant, which
allows you to control your home with your voice, or close captioning, which
makes it possible to watch the TV above a crowded, noisy bar. By considering
accessibility, you can impact everyone's lives for the better. I'm excited to
share more with you throughout the program where you'll learn more about project
management and prepare for a career in this field. See you later.