Welcome back. By now you should have a better sense of how the different parts
of the initiation come together to form the beginnings of a project. So far,
you've outlined the key components of project initiation and, most importantly,
you've learned that a lack of preparation during this stage can lead to problems
later on. We're going to continue honing your project preparation skills. Once
we're done here, you'll be able to define and create project goals and
deliverables, the guiding stars of your project. You'll also be able to define
project scope, the boundaries of your project, that state what is and is not
part of your project. You'll be able to identify what's in-scope and
out-of-scope for a project and you'll be able to recognize scope creep,
something you'll need to keep a close eye on to help you reach your project
goal. Finally, you'll be able to explain different ways of defining and
measuring your project's success criteria. Before we get started, I'd like to
talk through an example that we'll follow for the rest of this course. Imagine
that you're the lead project manager at Office Green, a commercial landscaping
company that specializes in plant decor for offices and other businesses. The
Director of Product at Office Green has an idea for a new service called Plant
Pals to offer high-volume customers small, low-maintenance plants, like little
cacti and leafy ferns, for their desks. As the project manager, you've been
tasked with managing the roll out of this new service. As we go through this
course, we'll return to your role as the project manager at Office Green, to
help teach you about project goals, deliverables, and success criteria. You'll
also see the role your team and stakeholders play in creating and following
these three important components. At the end, you'll compile everything you've
learned into a shared document that you can use as a portfolio to share with
future employers. After this course, you'll move on to the next phases of the
project life cycle, and so will your Office Green project. Enjoy.