My name is John Fyle, and I'm a technical program manager for Google in the
Chicago office. I've worked a couple different companies. I've worked at
startups, I've worked at grocery companies, and I've worked at Google. And what
I've found is at some companies, what you find is that there's engineers that
come in and what they're looking for is direction. They want to be told what to
do; they want to be handed the task and just execute on it. At Google, people
are really invested in their product. We call Google a bottom-up kind of
culture. You know, a lot of companies, you have this directive from the top
saying "This is what we're gonna do," but at Google, people are so passionate
about the industry and what they're working on, that the ideas really come up
and bubble up from the bottom. What I always tell folks is that the technical
and hard skills of program management, you can pick up in a book. You can learn
about Agile, and you can learn about Extreme Programming. You can learn about
all these things: planning, retrospectives, all these great terms and tools and
stuff like that. At the end of the day, that's all they are, though. They're
just a tool, and you can't use a hammer for a screw. It's the same thing with
program managment; you can't use the same tools for every project. You have to
learn what's going on in a given team, in a given project, and a given group of
people. And so at the end of the day, really the challenge is understanding the
dynamics of the people that you work with. I like to say that the key about
program managment is people and contexts. You have to understand the people that
you're working with, you have to understand the context, and only then can you
apply the skills that you learned. You won't always have the opportunity to pick
and choose what people you want to work on a project, and that's okay, because
you can just use those tools that you've gained in the past to understand the
backgrounds and the style and the personalities of the people that you're
working with. The most important part about program management is understanding
the personalities of the people you work with so that you can tailor your
approach to make sure that you're working effectively with them.  Think about it
this way. You might be working with an introverted person. That person needs
different types of attention that an extroverted person. An extroverted person
wants to talk about their ideas and their product plans in a meeting. An
introverted person, you might want to get their feedback offline or to have an
async kind of forum opportunity for them to voice their opinion. It's really not
going to be cut and dry every time you work on a project, and that's why it's
really, really important that you're flexible in your approach. You want to have
people that are challenging the choices that we make. But at the end of the day,
we all need to agree on a common goal and a common vision so that we can move
forward. We don't want distractions because that's the thing that the one thing
that can slow things down. At the end of the day, technical problems aren't that
hard. People problems are really hard. And making sure that your team is sold
and bought in on a vision and the project is super, super important. It's your
goal and your job role as a program manager to motivate the team and make sure
that everyone's on the same page.