What is Stakeholder Management? [+ STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT STATEGY]
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c7jWzBsd738

Do you need a better understanding of  stakeholder management? By the end of
this video,  you'll know exactly what is stakeholder  management and the steps
that you need to  take in order to manage your stakeholders. And  if you want to
be a project manager rock star,  then stay tuned to the end of this video where
I'm  going to share with you how you can get your hands  on an amazing
checklist, which is going  to ensure that your project succeed.  Hi. If you're
new here, welcome. Subscribe  to the best career and project management  advice
channel coming to you with a new video  every Wednesday. Now, if you're excited
about  learning about stakeholder management, then  give this video a like, and
let's get to it.  What is a stakeholder? Let's ensure we're  all on the same
page with this definition.  A stakeholder is anyone who has interest in  your
project. That interest ranges from a  sponsor who is giving you the directive
for the project and to champion for it,  to steering committee members who are
going to help you remove roadblocks,  to your actual team members who are the
subject matter experts who are executing tasks,  and to the person who's
delivering...  sorry, who's actually going to receive  the deliverable of the
project. So stakeholders  are anyone who has an interest in the project.  What
is stakeholder management? When it comes  to project, your stakeholders can make
or  break what is going on in your project from a  standpoint of perception to
the actual reality of  what's going on. Stakeholder management is really  about
ensuring that you have proper communication  and an understanding of needs. This
is  where change management comes in because  we really look at stakeholders
under the umbrella  of change management. The success of your project  is not
just about ensuring that you hit your  deliverable, but ensuring that you
brought all  your stakeholders along the process and journey  of the creation of
your deliverable so by the time  it's done, everyone's on the same page  and
they're all excited. So, it really  is about managing the people who are all
going  to be different and they have different needs,  and ensuring that
everyone is on that same page. Now, I'm going to go through with you the  
step-by-step guide on managing stakeholders. Step  1, identify your
stakeholders. This is a really  interesting activity. One tool that I use all
the  time and I highly recommend is a SIPOC. In fact,  if you go to the link
below underneath this  YouTube video, you'll actually see one of  my videos that
I talk about SIPOC. You really  want to have an understanding of who's involved.
Now, a nice way to look at it is it could  be internal or external stakeholders.
The internal stakeholders are kind of the  people that I mentioned before when I
say  when I talked about stakeholders. They're your  project, your sponsors,
your steering committee.  They're people within your organization  that are
impacted by this project. But  there's external stakeholders as well. And  you
really have to look at that. Depending on  what you're delivering, you may have
a third  party vendor, you may be delivering something  to an outside consumer
or to a customer, you may  even have to think about government regulations,  
they become a stakeholder in your process. So  identifying who all your
stakeholders are is going  to be critical, because each one, you're going  to
address and communicate with in a different  manner because they all have
different needs. Step 2, understanding your stakeholders. This is  where you
want to have an understanding of needs  and interest in the project, because
depending on  their need and interest, you're going to address  them in
different ways. So you want to find out  from your internal and/or external
stakeholders  whether or not they have lots of needs and lots  of interest, or
do they have minimal needs  and lots of interest, or do they have...  What is
it? Lots of interest and minimal needs.  You know where I'm going, right? It's
like a graph  that you're going to do. And you're going to place  them into
which section or quadrant that they're  in, because that's going to determine
your type  of communication you're going to have with them.  I'm not going to
over-communicate with someone  who has low interest in the project, right? And  
low needs. I'm going to provide communication,  but I'm not going do extensive
communication. But  for someone that has lots of interest and  lots of needs,
I'm going to be on top of  that particular stakeholder a lot to make sure
they're very much aware of what's going on.  So, it really determines their
needs and  interests, how much activity and action you're  going to have with a
particular stakeholder. Step 3, put an engagement plan together for each  of
your stakeholders based on Step 2 and that  graph I told you about and their
interest level  needs. So now that you know where they are,  lots of interests,
lots of needs, put a real  detailed plan around that because you're going  to
have to integrate that into your project plan.  Step 4, allocate time to
interact with them, your  stakeholders. Yes, I know you know where each one  is
at in the quadrant. You've identified them. You  even have your engagement plan.
That's awesome.  The hustle and bustle of projects however, you  definitely need
to ensure you don't get lost in  that hustle and bustle and just stick to your
engagement plan, which could just very well be  emails and newsletters or
whatever it may be. I  highly recommend you actually incorporate some  
one-on-one time and really speak to them and get  them involved. So just ensure
that you do allocate  that time with them as part of your engagement  plan which
is just going to ensure that you  successfully address their needs and ensure
that  their interests is also at the same level that it  started with at the
beginning of the project too. Now that you know how to manage your stakeholders,
congratulations. I would like for you  to go to the link below and grab this.  
This is going to ensure that you can manage your  projects with great success
and minimize failures,  just as important as it is with stakeholder  management.
So please, check it out. On that note,  I want to thank you so much for watching
this  video. Please like it. Share it with everybody  that you know. And if you
have any other tips,  tricks, techniques on managing stakeholders,  please share
them in the comments below.  Until the next video, see you later.
